Hi Dave.  Here is my application for the foreman position.  I am looking forward to going
through the process.  I will deliver my resume by hand to you today.  See you at work...

Chris McCarrell




1.  Why are you interested in being a foreman or leadman (besides the obvious pay increase)?

Because I targeted this profession as my career choice, and I targeted SSA as the company
I wanted to work for because SSA is one of the largest stevedoring companies on the water
front which offers me the possibility of building a long and successful career.  I see
being a foreman at SSA as the next logical step in my career.


2.  What do you feel are the most important duties and priorities of the foreman or leadman position?

To get the job done no matter what the challenges
To properly manage the workforce as operational necessities dictate
Keep an open line of communication between both management and labor
Ensure a safe working environment under all conditions
Keep the cargo flowing


3.  What do you think it means to be a foreman or leadman at SSA?

It means providing strong moral and ethical leadership of the work environment,
maintaining strict adherence to company rules and policies
while balancing against the requirements of the IAM / ILWU union contracts.

It means identifying the strengths of the team members and emphasizing and reinforcing them
to get a more well rounded crew.

It means doing what I say I'm going to do, communicating very clearly with my team,
and following up to manage the behaviors of the team after the expectations have been set.

It means showing up to work when you say you are going to show up to work.


4. What skills, qualifications, experience or anything else you believe is relevant would you bring to the position?

I owned, maintained and operated my own excavating contractor business for 10 years.
I was the onsite mechanic with duties of maintaining an 11 truck / trailer tanker liquid CO2 fleet for Praxair Long Beach working with the service personal at Freightliner.
I was the sole mechanic responsible for maintaining 100 Budweiser truck and beverage trailers while working closely with mangement and vendors to ensure the proper amount of equipment was ready.

Please see the attached resume for a comprehensive list of my certifications and trainings.
It is a one of a kind.  Please return.
