Notes while working with the simple web application framework Dancer
http://perldancer.org/

DONE Initial foray
  install dancer on proteus
    I just followed the std recipe, and it seemed to work just fine:
      sudo cpan Dancer
  get hello world working
    again the std recipe worked great:
      cd ~/tmp
      dancer -a mywebapp
      cd mywebapp
      perl mywebapp.pl
      http://localhost:3000/

  better choice to run the webserver:
    perl mywebapp.pl --port=3267 --daemon


read docs:
  DONE               ::Introduction
                ::Cookbook
  perldoc Dancer

my app dev tasks
  pick a name for it: nutkeeper
  build the user / authentication / authorization model it early

Docs notes
::Introduction

Q: how is HEAD support derived from GET?  It needs some notion of whether the content
  is current or not -- how could this work correctly?  C.f.:

    (when defining a route handler for the GET method, Dancer automatically defines a
    route handler for the HEAD method, in order to honour HEAD requests for each of
    your GET route handlers)

----

Route Handlers

parameters passed are made available via the params keyword inside a handler.
params returns a hashref.

Q: are both & and ; styles of parameter parsing handled?
  Maybe this Q is answered in Dancer::Request

A route pattern may contain declarations of the parameters it is expecting, eg:
           get '/hello/:name' => sub {
               "Hey ".params−>{name}.", welcome here!";
           };

Wildcard matching
Doc is confusing; what is being matched against?
The example makes it seem like matching is being done against the file system,
but that doesn't make any sense.
This section is a candidate for a re write.

A global prefix can be defined once, from that parse moment on, all subsequent
route handlers act as suffixes.
           prefix '/home';

An invoked route handler signal its decision not to serve the request with the 'pass' keyword.

Looks like before filters are commonly used to provide login support.
There are before filters
          after  filters
          before template filters

Before template filters are:
  This is a good way to setup some global vars you like to have in all your templates,
  like the name of the user logged in or a section name.

N.B.  The Dancer::Introduction doc could certainly benefit from an introduction to
environments before using the concept in CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENTS

Looks like logging is a simple matter of turning it on with 2 config lines:

logger: 'file'
log: 'debug'

then calling 1 of 3 methods:
debug, warning, error

----------------------------------------------------------------

Looks like the cookie reading code has the bug that I handled in Discern
where the cookie deserializer cannot handle any value that contains a '='.
The effect is likely that the cookie value
an equals sign (=) goes here
will be truncated at the = sign and return only:
an equals sign (
